# enums
native BVOrthogType
native BVOrthogRefineType
native BVOrthogBlockType
native BVMatMultType
native DSStateType
native DSMatType
native EPSProblemType
native EPSExtraction
native EPSWhich
native EPSBalance
native EPSErrorType
native EPSConv
native EPSStop
native EPSConvergedReason
native EPSPowerShiftType
native EPSLanczosReorthogType
native EPSPRIMMEMethod
native EPSCISSQuadRule
native EPSCISSExtraction
native FNCombineType
native MFNConvergedReason
native LMEProblemType
native LMEConvergedReason
native NEPWhich
native NEPErrorType
native NEPRefine
native NEPRefineScheme
native NEPConv
native NEPStop
native NEPConvergedReason
native PEPProblemType
native PEPWhich
native PEPBasis
native PEPScale
native PEPRefine
native PEPRefineScheme
native PEPExtract
native PEPErrorType
native PEPConv
native PEPStop
native PEPConvergedReason
native STMatMode
native SVDWhich
native SVDErrorType
native SVDConv
native SVDStop
native SVDConvergedReason
#
nativeptr EPS
nativeptr PEP
nativeptr NEP
nativeptr SVD
nativeptr MFN
nativeptr LME
nativeptr ST
nativeptr BV
nativeptr FN
nativeptr RG
nativeptr DS
#
parm errparm z
parm errparmlocal __z
